.TH "Motu perl client" 1 "" ""


.SS NAME

.nf
\&./motu-client.pl
.fi


.P
The motu perl client.

.SS SYNOPSIS

.P
This program can be integrated into a processing chain in order to automate the downloading of products via the Motu.

.SS ALGORITHM

.P
The communication algorithm with the MIS\-Gateway is the following:

.RS
.IP 1. 3
The program builds a URL based on parameters provided by the user to download the requested product.
.IP 2. 3
The program sends the URL built to the Motu.
.IP 3. 3
The Motu sends a new URL to perform the authentication server via a "Central Authentication Service" (CAS).
.IP 4. 3
The program posts a new URL to get a "Ticket Granting Ticket" (TGT) to download the requested product.
.IP 5. 3
The CAS server sends the ticket.
.IP 6. 3
The program sends the first joined with ticket obtained above and download the requested product.
.RE

.SS CONFIGURATION FILE

.P
The program parameters are contained in an XML file. This file is located in the following directory:

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
on Unix platforms: $HOME/motu\-client/motu\-client\-perl.xml
.IP \(bu 3
on Windows platforms: %USERPROFILE%\emotu\-client/motu\-client\-perl.xml
.RE

.P
This file may be read\-only because it may contains the password use to authenticate to the CAS server.

.P
The expected structure of the XML file is:

.nf
  	<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
  		<configuration>
  		<user>john</user>
  		<password>secret</password>
  		<verbose>0</verbose>
  		<mis_gateway>http://web-qt.cls.fr/mis-gateway-servlet/Motu?</mis_gateway>
  		<service_url>http://purl.org/myocean/ontology/service/database</service_url>
  		<service_name>CLS-TOULOUSE-FR-MERCATOR-MOTU-REST</service_name>
  		<dataset_url>http://purl.org/myocean/ontology/product/database</dataset_url>
  		<dataset_name>dataset-psy2v3-pgs-med-myocean-bestestimate</dataset_name>
  		<out_dir>C:/MIS-152/out_dir/</out_dir>
  		<out_name>perlTest.nc</out_name>
  		<date_min>2010-11-08</date_min>
  		<date_max>2010-11-10</date_max>
  		<latitude_min>-75</latitude_min>
  		<latitude_max>30</latitude_max>
  		<longitude_min>20</longitude_min>
  		<longitude_max>120</longitude_max>
  		<depth_min>0</depth_min>
  		<depth_max>15</depth_max>
  		<variable>sea_water_salinity</variable>
  	</configuration>
.fi


.SS INSTALLATION

.P
Copy the script in the directory of your choice. Create a configuration file (see "CONFIGURATION FILE") to inform the user and password to use to connect to the CAS server.

.P
Installing Perl modules which are not provided in the standard installation of Perl. The list of modules to be installed is described in section "REQUIRED MODULES".

.SS USAGE

.P
Usage: \&./motu\-client.pl \-h

.nf
  	Usage: motu-client.pl [options]
  
        Options:
            --help            
                                  show this help message and exit
            --verbose
                                  print information in stdout
            -u USER, --user=USER
                                  The user name, mandatory
                                  No user name ? You must register to MyOcean
            -p PWD, --password=PWD
                                  The user password, mandatory
            -g GATEWAY, --mis_gateway=GATEWAY
                                  The gateway to use (url), mandatory
                                  Should be something like http://atoll.cls.fr/mfcglo-armor-gateway-servlet/Motu?
            -S SERVICE_URL, --service_url=SERVICE_URL
                                  The service url, mandatory
                                  Should be something like "http://purl.org/myocean/ontology/service/database"
            -s SERVICE_NAME, --service_name=SERVICE_NAME
                                  The service name, mandatory
                                  Should be something like GLOBAL_REANALYSIS_PHYS_001_003_b-TDS
            -D=DATASET_URL, --dataset_url=DATASET_URL
                                  The dataset url, mandatory
                                  Should be something like "http://purl.org/myocean/ontology/product/database"
            -d DATASET_NAME, --dataset_name=DATASET_NAME
                                  The dataset to download, mandatory
                                  Should be something like dataset-armor-3d-ran-v1-myocean
            -o OUT_DIR, --out_dir=OUT_DIR
                                  The output dir, mandatory
            -f OUT_NAME, --out_name=OUT_NAME
                                  The output file name
                                  Can be a netCDF file or a zip file containing netCDF files, depending on the server configuration
            -t DATE_MIN, --date_min=DATE_MIN
                                  The min date (YYYY-MM-DD)
            -T DATE_MAX, --date_max=DATE_MAX
                                  The max date (YYYY-MM-DD)
            -y LATITUDE_MIN, --latitude_min=LATITUDE_MIN
                                  The min latitude [-90 ; 90]
            -Y LATITUDE_MAX, --latitude_min=LATITUDE_MAX
                                  The max latitude [-90 ; 90]                      
            -x LONGITUDE_MIN, --longitude_min=LONGITUDE_MIN
                                  The min longitude [-180 ; 180]
            -X LONGITUDE_MAX, --longitude_max=LONGITUDE_MAX
                                  The max longitude [-180 ; 180]
            -z DEPTH_MIN, --depth_min=DEPTH_MIN
                                  The min depth [0 ; 2e31]
            -Z DEPTH_MAX, --depth_min=DEPTH_MAX
                                  The max depth [0 ; 2e31]
            -v VARIABLE, --variable=VARIABLE
                                  The physical variables to be extracted, you can use netCDF variable name or standard_name attribute
                                  Generic standard name table is available here:
                                  http://cf-pcmdi.llnl.gov/documents/cf-standard-names/standard-name-table/16/cf-standard-name-table.html
.fi


.SS REQUIRED MODULES

.P
This program requires several other modules:

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
Archive::Zip
.IP \(bu 3
Date::Manip
.IP \(bu 3
Readonly
.IP \(bu 3
XML::Simple 
.RE

.SS BUGS AND QUESTIONS

.P
Please refer to the documentation for information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

.SS LICENSE

.P
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

.P
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.

.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111\-1307, USA.

.SS AUTHOR

.P
CLS (Collecte Localisation Satellites) for MyOcean

.P
www.cls.fr

.P
operation.mis@myocean.eu.org

.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.6 (http://txt2tags.org)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -i J:\workspaces\atoll-v2\cls-motu\motu-client\motu-client-perl\src\doc\readme-motu-client.t2t -o J:\workspaces\atoll-v2\cls-motu\motu-client\motu-client-perl\src\doc\readme-motu-client.man
